Functions:
A function is a section of code that can be reused in a program. Functions are important in Python because they allow you to 
automate repetitive parts of your code. 

In Python, you'll work with built-in functions and user-defined functions. Built-in functions are functions that exist within 
Python and can be called directly. The print() function is an example of a built-in function.

User-defined functions are functions that programmers design for their specific needs. To define a function, you need to include 
a function header and the body of your function.

 Function header:
 The function header is what tells Python that you are starting to define a function. For example, if you want to define a function 
 that displays an "investigate activity" message, you can include this function header:

 def display_investigation_message():

 The def keyword is placed before a function name to define a function. In this case, the name of that function is 
 display_investigation_message. 

 Function body
 The body of the function is an indented block of code after the function header that defines what the function does. The 
 indentation is very important when writing a function because it separates the definition of a function from the rest of the code.

 To add a body to your definition of the display_investigation_message() function, add an indented line with the print() function. 
 Your function definition becomes the following:

 def display_investigation_message():

     print("investigate activity")

 Calling a function:
 After defining a function, you can use it as many times as needed in your code. Using a function after defining it is referred to as 
 calling a function. To call a function, write its name followed by parentheses. So, for the function you previously defined, you can 
 use the following code to call it:

 display_investigation_message()

 Parameters:
 A parameter is an object that is included in a function definition for use in that function. When you define a function, you create 
 variables in the function header. They can then be used in the body of the function. In this context, these variables are called parameters.  
 For example, consider the following function:

 def remaining_login_attempts(maximum_attempts, total_attempts):

     print(maximum_attempts - total_attempts)

 This function takes in two variables, maximum_attempts and total_attempts and uses them to perform a calculation. In this example, 
 maximum_attempts and total_attempts are parameters.

 Arguments:
 In Python, an argument is the data brought into a function when it is called. When calling remaining_login_attempts in the following example, 
 the integers 3 and 2 are considered arguments:

 remaining_login_attempts(3, 2)

 These integers pass into the function through the parameters that were identified when defining the function. In this case, those parameters 
 would be maximum_attempts and total_attempts. 3 is in the first position, so it passes into maximum_attempts. Similarly, 2 is in the second 
 position and passes into total_attempts.

 Return statements:
 When defining functions in Python, you use return statements if you want the function to return output. The return keyword is used to return 
 information from a function.

 The return keyword appears in front of the information that you want to return. In the following example, it is before the calculation of 
 how many login attempts remain:

 def remaining_login_attempts(maximum_attempts, total_attempts):

     return maximum_attempts - total_attempts

Global variables:
A global variable is a variable that is available through the entire program. Global variables are assigned outside of a function definition. 
Whenever that variable is called, whether inside or outside a function, it will return the value it is assigned.

For example, you might assign the following variable at the beginning of your code:

device_id = "7ad2130bd"

Throughout the rest of your code, you will be able to access and modify the device_id variable in conditionals, loops, functions, and other syntax.


Local variables:
A local variable is a variable assigned within a function. These variables cannot be called or accessed outside of the body of a function. Local 
variables include parameters as well as other variables assigned within a function definition.

In the following function definition, total_string and name are local variables:

def greet_employee(name):

    total_string = "Welcome" + name

    return total_string

The variable total_string is a local variable because it's assigned inside of the function. The parameter name is a local variable because it 
is also created when the function is defined. 

Whenever you call a function, Python creates these variables temporarily while the function is running and deletes them from memory after the 
function stops running.

This means that if you call the greet_employee() function with an argument and then use the total_string variable outside of this function, 
you'll get an error.

Python Standard Library:
The Python Standard Library is an extensive collection of Python code that often comes packaged with Python. It includes a variety of modules, 
each with pre-built code centered around a particular type of task. 

For example, you were previously introduced to the following modules in the Python Standard Library:

->The re module, which provides functions used for searching for patterns in log files

->The csv module, which provides functions used when working with .csv files

->The glob and os modules, which provide functions used when interacting with the command line

->The time and datetime modules, which provide functions used when working with timestamps

Another Python Standard Library module is statistics. The statistics module includes functions used when calculating statistics related to numeric data. 
For example, mean() is a function in the statistics module that takes numeric data as input and calculates its mean (or average). Additionally, median() 
is a function in the statistics module that takes numeric data as input and calculates its median (or middle value).

Import modules from the Python Standard Library:
To access modules from the Python Standard Library, you need to import them. You can choose to either import a full module or to only import specific 
functions from a module. 

 Importing an entire module:
 To import an entire Python Standard Library module, you use the import keyword. The import keyword searches for a module or library in a system and 
 adds it to the local Python environment. After import, specify the name of the module to import. For example, you can specify import statistics to 
 import the statistics module. This will import all the functions inside of the statistics module for use later in your code.

 As an example, you might want to use the mean() function from the statistics module to calculate the average number of failed login attempts per 
 month for a particular user. In the following code block, the total number of failed login attempts for each of the twelve months is stored in a list 
 called monthly_failed_attempts. Run this code and analyze how mean() can be used to calculate the average of these monthly failed login totals and 
 store it in mean_failed_attempts:

 import statistics
 monthly_failed_attempts = [20, 17, 178, 33, 15, 21, 19, 29, 32, 15, 25, 19]
 mean_failed_attempts = statistics.mean(monthly_failed_attempts)
 print("mean:", mean_failed_attempts)

 Importing specific functions from a module:
 To import a specific function from the Python Standard Library, you can use the from keyword. For example, if you want to import just the median() 
 function from the statistics module, you can write from statistics import median.

 To import multiple functions from a module, you can separate the functions you want to import with a comma. For instance, from statistics import mean, 
 median imports both the mean() and the median() functions from the statistics module.

 An important detail to note is that if you import specific functions from a module, you no longer have to specify the name of the module before those 
 functions. You can examine this in the following code, which specifically imports only the median() and the mean() functions from the statistics 
 module and performs the same calculations as the previous examples:

 from statistics import mean, median
 monthly_failed_attempts = [20, 17, 178, 33, 15, 21, 19, 29, 32, 15, 25, 19]
 mean_failed_attempts = mean(monthly_failed_attempts)
 print("mean:", mean_failed_attempts)
 median_failed_attempts = median(monthly_failed_attempts)
 print("median:", median_failed_attempts)

External libraries:
In addition to the Python Standard Library, you can also download external libraries and incorporate them into your Python code. For example, for 
Beautiful Soup (bs4) for parsing HTML files and NumPy (numpy) for arrays and mathematical computations. Before using them in a Jupyter Notebook or 
a Google Colab environment, you need to install them first.

To install a library, such as numpy, in either environment, you can run the following line prior to importing the library:

%pip install numpy

This installs the library so you can use it in your notebook.

After a library is installed, you can import it directly into Python using the import keyword in a similar way to how you used it to import modules 
from the Python Standard Library. For example, after the numpy install, you can use this code to import it:

import numpy