Network Protocols:
A network protocol is a set of rules used by two or more devices on a network to describe the order of delivery and the structure 
of data. Network protocols serve as instructions that come with the information in the data packet. These instructions tell the 
receiving device what to do with the data. Protocols are like a common language that allows devices all across the world to 
communicate with and understand each other.

Even though network protocols perform an essential function in network communication, security analysts should still understand 
their associated security implications. Some protocols have vulnerabilities that malicious actors exploit. For example, a 
nefarious actor could use the Domain Name System (DNS) protocol, which resolves web addresses to IP addresses, to divert traffic 
from a legitimate website to a malicious website containing malware. 

Three categories of network protocols:
Network protocols can be divided into three main categories: communication protocols, management protocols, and security 
protocols. There are dozens of different network protocols, but you don’t need to memorize all of them for an entry-level 
security analyst role. However, it’s important for you to know the ones listed in this reading. 

 Communication protocols:
 Communication protocols govern the exchange of information in network transmission. They dictate how the data is transmitted 
 between devices and the timing of the communication. They also include methods to recover data lost in transit. Here are a few 
 of them.

  ->Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is an internet communication protocol that allows two devices to form a connection and 
    stream data. TCP uses a three-way handshake process. First, the device sends a synchronize (SYN) request to a server. 
    Then the server responds with a SYN/ACK packet to acknowledge receipt of the device's request. Once the server receives the 
    final ACK packet from the device, a TCP connection is established. In the TCP/IP model, TCP occurs at the transport layer.

  ->User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is a connectionless protocol that does not establish a connection between devices before a 
    transmission. This makes it less reliable than TCP. But it also means that it works well for transmissions that need to get 
    to their destination quickly. For example, one use of UDP is for sending DNS requests to local DNS servers. In the TCP/IP 
    model, UDP occurs at the transport layer.

  ->Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application layer protocol that provides a method of communication between clients 
    and website servers. HTTP uses port 80. HTTP is considered insecure, so it is being replaced on most websites by a secure 
    version, called HTTPS that uses encryption from SSL/TLS for communication. However, there are still many websites that use 
    the insecure HTTP protocol. In the TCP/IP model, HTTP occurs at the application layer.

  ->Domain Name System (DNS) is a protocol that translates internet domain names into IP addresses. When a client computer wishes 
    to access a website domain using their internet browser, a query is sent to a dedicated DNS server. The DNS server then looks 
    up the IP address that corresponds to the website domain. DNS normally uses UDP on port 53. However, if the DNS reply to a 
    request is large, it will switch to using the TCP protocol. In the TCP/IP model, DNS occurs at the application layer.

 Management Protocols:
 The next category of network protocols is management protocols. Management protocols are used for monitoring and managing 
 activity on a network. They include protocols for error reporting and optimizing performance on the network.
 
  ->Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is a network protocol used for monitoring and managing devices on a network. 
    SNMP can reset a password on a network device or change its baseline configuration. It can also send requests to network 
    devices for a report on how much of the network’s bandwidth is being used up. In the TCP/IP model, SNMP occurs at the 
    application layer.

  ->Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is an internet protocol used by devices to tell each other about data transmission 
    errors across the network. ICMP is used by a receiving device to send a report to the sending device about the data 
    transmission. ICMP is commonly used as a quick way to troubleshoot network connectivity and latency by issuing the “ping” 
    command on a Linux operating system. In the TCP/IP model, ICMP occurs at the internet layer.

 Security Protocols:
 Security protocols are network protocols that ensure that data is sent and received securely across a network. Security 
 protocols use encryption algorithms to protect data in transit. Below are some common security protocols.

  ->Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) is a network protocol that provides a secure method of communication between 
    clients and website servers. HTTPS is a secure version of HTTP that uses secure sockets layer/transport layer security 
    (SSL/TLS) encryption on all transmissions so that malicious actors cannot read the information contained. HTTPS uses port 443. 
    In the TCP/IP model, HTTPS occurs at the application layer.

  ->Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) is a secure protocol used to transfer files from one device to another over a network. 
    SFTP uses secure shell (SSH), typically through TCP port 22. SSH uses Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) and other types of 
    encryption to ensure that unintended recipients cannot intercept the transmissions. In the TCP/IP model, SFTP occurs at the 
    application layer. SFTP is used often with cloud storage. Every time a user uploads or downloads a file from cloud storage, 
    the file is transferred using the SFTP protocol.

 Note: The encryption protocols mentioned do not conceal the source or destination IP address of network traffic. This means a 
       malicious actor can still learn some basic information about the network traffic if they intercept it. 

Network Address Translation:
The devices on your local home or office network each have a private IP address that they use to communicate directly with 
each other. However, in order for the devices with private IP addresses to communicate with the public internet, they need to 
have a single public IP address that represents all devices on the LAN to the public. For outgoing messages, the router can 
replace a private source IP address with its public IP address and perform the reverse operation for responses. This process is 
known as Network Address Translation (NAT) and it generally requires a router or firewall to be specifically configured to 
perform NAT. NAT is a part of layer 2 (internet layer) and layer 3 (transport layer) of the TCP/IP model.

Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol:
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is in the management family of network protocols. DHCP is an application layer 
protocol used on a network to configure devices. It works with the router to assign a unique IP address to each device and 
provide the addresses of the appropriate DNS server and default gateway for each device. DHCP servers operate on UDP port 67 
while DHCP clients operate on UDP port 68.

Address Resolution Protocol:
By now, you are familiar with IP and MAC addresses. You’ve learned that each device on a network has a public IP address, a 
private IP address, and a MAC address that identify it on the network. A device’s IP address may change over time, but its MAC 
address is permanent because it is unique to a device's network interface card. The MAC address is used to communicate with 
devices within the same network, but sometimes, the MAC address is unknown. This is why the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is 
needed. ARP is mainly a network access layer protocol in the TCP/IP model used to translate the IP addresses that are found in 
data packets into the MAC address of the hardware device. 

Each device on the network performs ARP and keeps track of matching IP and MAC addresses in an ARP cache. ARP does not have a 
specific port number since it is a layer 2 protocol and port numbers are associated with the layer 7 application layer.

Telnet:
Telnet is an application layer protocol that is used to connect with a remote system. Telnet sends all information in clear text. 
It uses command line prompts to control another device similar to secure shell (SSH), but Telnet is not as secure as SSH. Telnet 
can be used to connect to local or remote devices and uses TCP port 23. 

Secure shell:
Secure shell protocol (SSH) is used to create a secure connection with a remote system. This application layer protocol provides 
an alternative for secure authentication and encrypted communication. SSH operates over the TCP port 22 and is a replacement for 
less secure protocols, such as Telnet.

Post office protocol:
Post office protocol (POP) is an application layer (layer 4 of the TCP/IP model) protocol used to manage and retrieve email from 
a mail server. POP3 is the most commonly used version of POP. Many organizations have a dedicated mail server on the network that 
handles incoming and outgoing mail for users on the network. User devices will send requests to the remote mail server and 
download email messages locally. If you have ever refreshed your email application and had new emails populate in your inbox, 
you are experiencing POP and internet message access protocol (IMAP) in action. Unencrypted, plaintext authentication uses 
TCP/UDP port 110 and encrypted emails use Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS) over TCP/UDP port 995.  
When using POP, mail has to finish downloading on a local device before it can be read. After downloading, the mail may or may 
not be deleted from the mail server, so it does not guarantee that a user can sync the same email across multiple devices. 

Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP):
IMAP is used for incoming email. It downloads the headers of emails and the message content. The content also remains on the 
email server, which allows users to access their email from multiple devices. IMAP uses TCP port 143 for unencrypted email and 
TCP port 993 over the TLS protocol. Using IMAP allows users to partially read email before it is finished downloading. Since the 
mail is kept on the mail server, it allows a user to sync emails across multiple devices. 

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol:
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is used to transmit and route email from the sender to the recipient’s address. SMTP works 
with Message Transfer Agent (MTA) software, which searches DNS servers to resolve email addresses to IP addresses, to ensure 
emails reach their intended destination. SMTP uses TCP/UDP port 25 for unencrypted emails and TCP/UDP port 587 using TLS for 
encrypted emails. The TCP port 25 is often used by high-volume spam. SMTP helps to filter out spam by regulating how many 
emails a source can send at a time.

Protocols and port numbers:
Remember that port numbers are used by network devices to determine what should be done with the information contained in each 
data packet once they reach their destination. Firewalls can filter out unwanted traffic based on port numbers. For example, an 
organization may configure a firewall to only allow access to TCP port 995 (POP3) by IP addresses belonging to the organization.

Wireless Communication Protocols:
Many people today refer to wireless internet as Wi-Fi. Wi-Fi refers to a set of standards that define communication for wireless 
LANs. Wi-Fi is a marketing term commissioned by the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance (WECA). WECA has since renamed their 
organization Wi-Fi Alliance. 

Wi-Fi standards and protocols are based on the 802.11 family of internet communication standards determined by the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). So, as a security analyst, you might also see Wi-Fi referred to as IEEE 802.11.

Wi-Fi communications are secured by wireless networking protocols. Wireless security protocols have evolved over the years, 
helping to identify and resolve vulnerabilities with more advanced wireless technologies.

 Wired Equivalent Privacy:
 Wired equivalent privacy (WEP) is a wireless security protocol designed to provide users with the same level of privacy on 
 wireless network connections as they have on wired network connections. WEP was developed in 1999 and is the oldest of the 
 wireless security standards.

 WEP is largely out of use today, but security analysts should still understand WEP in case they encounter it. For example, a 
 network router might have used WEP as the default security protocol and the network administrator never changed it. Or, devices 
 on a network might be too old to support newer Wi-Fi security protocols. Nevertheless, a malicious actor could potentially break 
 the WEP encryption, so it’s now considered a high-risk security protocol.

 Wi-Fi Protected Access:
 Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) was developed in 2003 to improve upon WEP, address the security issues that it presented, and 
 replace it. WPA was always intended to be a transitional measure so backwards compatibility could be established with older
 hardware.

 The flaws with WEP were in the protocol itself and how the encryption was used. WPA addressed this weakness by using a protocol 
 called Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP). WPA encryption algorithm uses larger secret keys than WEPs, making it more 
 difficult to guess the key by trial and error.

 WPA also includes a message integrity check that includes a message authentication tag with each transmission. If a malicious 
 actor attempts to alter the transmission in any way or resend at another time, WPA’s message integrity check will identify the 
 attack and reject the transmission.

 Despite the security improvements of WPA, it still has vulnerabilities. Malicious actors can use a key reinstallation attack 
 (or KRACK attack) to decrypt transmissions using WPA. Attackers can insert themselves in the WPA authentication handshake 
 process and insert a new encryption key instead of the dynamic one assigned by WPA. If they set the new key to all zeros, it is 
 as if the transmission is not encrypted at all.

 Because of this significant vulnerability, WPA was replaced with an updated version of the protocol called WPA2. 

  WPA2:
  The second version of Wi-Fi Protected Access—known as WPA2—was released in 2004. WPA2 improves upon WPA by using the Advanced 
  Encryption Standard (AES). WPA2 also improves upon WPA’s use of TKIP. WPA2 uses the Counter Mode Cipher Block Chain Message 
  Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP), which provides encapsulation and ensures message authentication and integrity. Because of 
  the strength of WPA2, it is considered the security standard for all Wi-Fi transmissions today. WPA2, like its predecessor, is 
  vulnerable to KRACK attacks. This led to the development of WPA3 in 2018. 

   Personal:
   WPA2 personal mode is best suited for home networks for a variety of reasons. It is easy to implement, initial setup takes 
   less time for personal than enterprise version. The global passphrase for WPA2 personal version needs to be applied to each 
   individual computer and access point in a network. This makes it ideal for home networks, but unmanageable for organizations. 

   Enterprise:
   WPA2 enterprise mode works best for business applications. It provides the necessary security for wireless networks in 
   business settings. The initial setup is more complicated than WPA2 personal mode, but enterprise mode offers individualized 
   and centralized control over the Wi-Fi access to a business network. This means that network administrators can grant or remove 
   user access to a network at any time. Users never have access to encryption keys, this prevents potential attackers from 
   recovering network keys on individual computers.

 WPA3
 WPA3 is a secure Wi-Fi protocol and is growing in usage as more WPA3 compatible devices are released. These are the key 
 differences between WPA2 and WPA3:

 ->WPA3 addresses the authentication handshake vulnerability to KRACK attacks, which is present in WPA2. 

 ->WPA3 uses Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE), a password-authenticated, cipher-key-sharing agreement. This prevents 
   attackers from downloading data from wireless network connections to their systems to attempt to decode it.

 ->WPA3 has increased encryption to make passwords more secure  by using 128-bit encryption, with WPA3-Enterprise mode offering 
   optional 192-bit encryption.

Firewall:
A network security device that monitors traffic to and from your network.

 Port filtering:
 A firewall function that blocs or allows certain port numbers to limit unwanted communication.

 Cloud-based firewalls:
 Software firewalls that are hosted by a cloud service provider.

 Stateful:
 A class of firewall that keeps track of information passing through it and proactively filters out threats.

 Stateless:
 A class of firewall that operates based on predefined rules and does not keep track of information from data packets.

 Benefits of next generation firewalls (NGFWs):
 ->Deep packet inspection

 ->Intrusion protection

 ->Threat intelligence

Virtual Private Network (VPN):
A network security servie that changes your public IP address and hides your virtual location so that you can keep your data 
private when you are using a public network like the internet.

 Encapsulation:
 A process performed by a VPN service that protects your data by wrapping sensitive data in other data packets. 

Security Zone:
A segment of a network that protects the internal network from the internet.

 Network segmentation:
 A security technique that divides the network into segments.

 Uncontrolled Zone:
 Any network outside of the organization's control.

 Controlled Zone:
 A subnet that protects the internal network from the uncontrolled zone.

 Areas in the controlled zone:
 ->Demilitarized zone(DMZ)

 ->Internal network.

 ->Restricted zone.

Subnetting:
Subnetting is the subdivision of a network into logical groups called subnets. It works like a network inside a network. 
Subnetting divides up a network address range into smaller subnets within the network. These smaller subnets form based on the 
IP addresses and network mask of the devices on the network. Subnetting creates a network of devices to function as their own 
network. This makes the network more efficient and can also be used to create security zones. If devices on the same subnet 
communicate with each other, the switch changes the transmissions to stay on the same subnet, improving speed and efficiency 
of the communications.

Classless Inter-Domain Routing notation for subnetting:
Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) is a method of assigning subnet masks to IP addresses to create a subnet. Classless 
addressing replaces classful addressing. Classful addressing was used in the 1980s as a system of grouping IP addresses into 
classes (Class A to Class E). Each class included a limited number of IP addresses, which were depleted as the number of devices 
connecting to the internet outgrew the classful range in the 1990s. Classless CIDR addressing expanded the number of available 
IPv4 addresses. 

 CIDR allows cybersecurity professionals to segment classful networks into smaller chunks. CIDR IP addresses are formatted like 
 IPv4 addresses, but they include a slash (“/’”) followed by a number at the end of the address, This extra number is called the 
 IP network prefix.  For example, a regular IPv4 address uses the 198.51.100.0 format, whereas a CIDR IP address would include the 
 IP network prefix at the end of the address, 198.51.100.0/24. This CIDR address encompasses all IP addresses between 198.51.100.0
 and 198.51.100.255. The system of CIDR addressing reduces the number of entries in routing tables and provides more available IP 
 addresses within networks.

 Security benefits of subnetting:
 Subnetting allows network professionals and analysts to create a network within their own network without requesting another 
 network IP address from their internet service provider. This process uses network bandwidth more efficiently and improves 
 network performance. Subnetting is one component of creating isolated subnetworks through physical isolation, routing 
 configuration, and firewalls.

Proxy servers:
A proxy server is another way to add security to your private network. Proxy servers utilize network address translation (NAT) to 
serve as a barrier between clients on the network and external threats. Forward proxies handle queries from internal clients when 
they access resources external to the network. Reverse proxies function opposite of forward proxies; they handle requests from 
external systems to services on the internal network. Some proxy servers can also be configured with rules, like a firewall.  
For example, you can create filters to block websites identified as containing malware.

 Forward proxy server:
 Regulates and restricts a person's access to the internet.

 Reverse proxy server:
 Regulates and restricts the internet's access to an internal server.

VPN protocols: Wireguard and IPSec:-
A VPN, or virtual private network, is a network security service that changes your public IP address and hides your virtual 
location so that you can keep your data private when you’re using a public network like the internet. VPNs provide a server 
that acts as a gateway between a computer and the internet. This server creates a path similar to a virtual tunnel that hides 
the computer’s IP address and encrypts the data in transit to the internet. The main purpose of a VPN is to create a secure 
connection between a computer and a network. Additionally, a VPN allows trusted connections to be established on non-trusted 
networks. VPN protocols determine how the secure network tunnel is formed. Different VPN providers provide different VPN protocols.