Playbook:
A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action. Essentially, a playbook provides a predefined and 
up-to-date list of steps to perform when responding to an incident.

Playbooks are accompanied by a strategy. The strategy outlines expectations of team members who are assigned a task, and some 
playbooks also list the individuals responsible. The outlined expectations are accompanied by a plan. The plan dictates how 
the specific task outlined in the playbook must be completed.

Playbooks should be treated as living documents, which means that they are frequently updated by security team members to address 
industry changes and new threats. Playbooks are generally managed as a collaborative effort, since security team members have 
different levels of expertise.

Updates are often made if:

->A failure is identified, such as an oversight in the outlined policies and procedures, or in the playbook itself. 

->There is a change in industry standards, such as changes in laws or regulatory compliance.

->The cybersecurity landscape changes due to evolving threat actor tactics and techniques.

Types of playbooks:-
Playbooks sometimes cover specific incidents and vulnerabilities. These might include ransomware, vishing, business email 
compromise (BEC), and other attacks. Incident and vulnerability response playbooks are very common, but they are not the only 
types of playbooks organizations develop. 

Each organization has a different set of playbook tools, methodologies, protocols, and procedures that they adhere to, and 
different individuals are involved at each step of the response process, depending on the country they are in. For example, 
incident notification requirements from government-imposed laws and regulations, along with compliance standards, affect the 
content in the playbooks. These requirements are subject to change based on where the incident originated and the type of data 
affected. 

Incident and vulnerability response playbooks:
Incident and vulnerability response playbooks are commonly used by entry-level cybersecurity professionals. They are developed 
based on the goals outlined in an organization’s business continuity plan. A business continuity plan is an established path 
forward allowing a business to recover and continue to operate as normal, despite a disruption like a security breach.

These two types of playbooks are similar in that they both contain predefined and up-to-date lists of steps to perform when 
responding to an incident. Following these steps is necessary to ensure that you, as a security professional, are adhering to 
legal and organizational standards and protocols. These playbooks also help minimize errors and ensure that important actions 
are performed within a specific timeframe.

When an incident, threat, or vulnerability occurs or is identified, the level of risk to the organization depends on the 
potential damage to its assets. A basic formula for determining the level of risk is that risk equals the likelihood of a threat. 
For this reason, a sense of urgency is essential. Following the steps outlined in playbooks is also important if any forensic 
task is being carried out. Mishandling data can easily compromise forensic data, rendering it unusable. 

Common steps included in incident and vulnerability playbooks include: 

->Preparation:Before incidents occur, mitigate potential impacts on the organization by documenting, establishing staffing plans, 
and educating users.

->Detection and Analysis: Detect and analyze events by implementing defined processes and appropriate technology.

->Containment: Prevent further damage and reduce immediate impact of incidents.

->Eradication and Recovery: Completely remove artifacts of the incident so that an organization can return to normal operations.

->Post-incident activity: Document the incident, inform organizational leadership, and apply lessons learned.

->Coordination: Report incidents and share information throughout the response process, based on established standards.

Additional steps include performing post-incident activities, and a coordination of efforts throughout the investigation 
and incident and vulnerability response stages.

You can use playbook for:

->Open attacks

->Privacy incidents

->Data leaks

->Denial of service attacks

->Service alerts

->others

Playbooks and SIEM tools:
Playbooks are used by cybersecurity teams in the event of an incident. Playbooks help security teams respond to incidents by 
ensuring that a consistent list of actions are followed in a prescribed way, regardless of who is working on the case. 
Playbooks can be very detailed and may include flow charts and tables to clarify what actions to take and in which order. 
Playbooks are also used for recovery procedures in the event of a ransomware attack. Different types of security incidents 
have their own playbooks that detail who should take what action and when. 

Playbooks are generally used alongside SIEM tools. If, for example, unusual user behavior is flagged by a SIEM tool, a playbook provides analysts with instructions about how to address the issue.

Playbooks and SOAR tools:
Playbooks are also used with SOAR tools. SOAR tools are similar to SIEM tools in that they are used for threat monitoring. SOAR is a piece of software used to automate repetitive tasks generated by tools such as a SIEM or managed detection and response (MDR). For example, if a user attempts to log into their computer too many times with the wrong password, a SOAR would automatically block their account to stop a possible intrusion. Then, analysts would refer to a playbook to take steps to resolve the issue.