Security Frameworks:
Guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy.
It's purpose:

->Protecting PII

->Securing financial information

->Identifying security weakness

->Managing organizational risks

->Aligning security with business goals

It's Components:

1.Identifying and documenting security goals.

2.Setting guidelines to achieve security goals.

3.Implementing security processes.

4.Monitoring and Communicating results.

Security Control:
Safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks.

CIA triad:-
A foundational model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems 
and security policies.
Confidentiality:Only authorized users can access specific assets or data.
Integrity:Data is correct, authentic, and reliable.
Availability: Data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it.

Asset:An item perceived as having value to an organization.

NIST Cybersecurity Framework(CSF):
A voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage
cybersecurity risk.

Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations.

The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP®):
FedRAMP is a U.S. federal government program that standardizes security assessment, authorization, monitoring, 
and handling of cloud services and product offerings. Its purpose is to provide consistency across the government 
sector and third-party cloud providers. 

Center for Internet Security (CIS®):
CIS is a nonprofit with multiple areas of emphasis. It provides a set of controls that can be used to safeguard 
systems and networks against attacks. Its purpose is to help organizations establish a better plan of defense. 
CIS also provides actionable controls that security professionals may follow if a security incident occurs.

General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR):
GDPR is a European Union (E.U.) general data regulation that protects the processing of E.U. residents’ data and 
their right to privacy in and out of E.U. territory. For example, if an organization is not being transparent about 
the data they are holding about an E.U. citizen and why they are holding that data, this is an infringement that 
can result in a fine to the organization. Additionally, if a breach occurs and an E.U. citizen’s data is compromised, 
they must be informed. The affected organization has 72 hours to notify the E.U. citizen about the breach.

Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
PCI DSS is an international security standard meant to ensure that organizations storing, accepting, processing, 
and transmitting credit card information do so in a secure environment. The objective of this compliance standard is 
to reduce credit card fraud. 

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA):
HIPAA is a U.S. federal law established in 1996 to protect patients' health information. This law prohibits patient 
information from being shared without their consent. It is governed by three rules: 

->Privacy

->Security 

->Breach notification 

Organizations that store patient data have a legal obligation to inform patients of a breach because if patients' 
Protected Health Information (PHI) is exposed, it can lead to identity theft and insurance fraud. PHI relates to 
the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, whether it’s a plan of care 
or payments for care. Along with understanding HIPAA as a law, security professionals also need to be familiar 
with the Health Information Trust Alliance (HITRUST®), which is a security framework and assurance program that 
helps institutions meet HIPAA compliance.

International Organization for Standardization (ISO) :
ISO was created to establish international standards related to technology, manufacturing, and management across borders. 
It helps organizations improve their processes and procedures for staff retention, planning, waste, and services. 

System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2):
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants® (AICPA) auditing standards board developed this standard. 
The SOC1 and SOC2 are a series of reports that focus on an organization's user access policies at different organizational 
levels such as: 

->Associate

->Supervisor

->Manager

->Executive

->Vendor 

->Others 

They are used to assess an organization’s financial compliance and levels of risk. They also cover confidentiality, 
privacy, integrity, availability, security, and overall data safety. Control failures in these areas can lead to fraud.

Securtity Ethics:
Guidelines for making appropriate decisions as a security professional.

Ethical Principles in Security:

->Confidentiality

->Privacy protections

->Laws

Ethical concerns and laws related to counterattacks:-

United States standpoint on counterattacks:
In the U.S., deploying a counterattack on a threat actor is illegal because of laws like the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 
and the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015, among others. You can only defend. The act of counterattacking in the U.S. 
is perceived as an act of vigilantism. A vigilante is a person who is not a member of law enforcement who decides to stop a 
crime on their own. And because threat actors are criminals, counterattacks can lead to further escalation of the attack, 
which can cause even more damage and harm. Lastly, if the threat actor in question is a state-sponsored hacktivist, 
a counterattack can lead to serious international implications. A hacktivist is a person who uses hacking to achieve a 
political goal. The political goal may be to promote social change or civil disobedience. 

For these reasons, the only individuals in the U.S. who are allowed to counterattack are approved employees of the federal 
government or military personnel. 