String:
String data is data consisting of an ordered sequence of characters. It's used to store any type of information 
you don't need to manipulate mathematically (such as through division or subtraction). 

 Indices:
 An index is a number assigned to every element in a sequence that indicates its position. With strings, this 
 means each character in the string has its own index.

 Bracket notation
 Bracket notation refers to the indices placed in square brackets. You can use bracket notation to extract a 
 part of a string. For example, the first character of the device ID might represent a certain characteristic 
 of the device. If you want to extract it, you can use bracket notation for this:

 "h32rb17"[0]
 
 This device ID might also be stored within a variable called device_id. You can apply the same bracket notation 
 to the variable:

 device_id = "h32rb17"

 device_id[0]

 String functions and methods:
 The str() and len() functions are useful for working with strings. You can also apply methods to strings, 
 including the .upper(), .lower(), and .index() methods. A method is a function that belongs to a specific data 
 type.

  str() and len():
  The str() function converts its input object into a string. Converting an integer to a string gives you the 
  ability to search through it and extract slices from it.

  string_id = str(19329302)

  The second function you learned for strings is the len() function, which returns the number of elements in an object.

  .upper() and .lower():
  The .upper() method returns a copy of the string with all of its characters in uppercase. For example, you can 
  change this department name to all uppercase by running the code "Information Technology".upper(). It would return 
  the string "INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY".

  Meanwhile, the .lower() method returns a copy of the string in all lowercase characters. "Information Technology".lower() 
  would return the string "information technology".

  .index():
  The .index() method finds the first occurrence of the input in a string and returns its location.

List:
List data is a data structure that consists of a collection of data in sequential form. You can use lists to store 
multiple elements in a single variable. A single list can contain multiple data types.  