Log:
A record of event that occur within an organization's systems and network.

Common log sources:-

->Firewall Log: A firewall log is a record of attempted or established connections for incoming traffic from the internet.
It also includes outbound requests to the internet from within the network.

->Network Log: A network log is a record of all computers and devices that enter and leave the network. It also records 
connections between devices and services on the network.

->Server Log: A server log is a record of events related to services, such as websites, emails, or file shares. 
It includes actions such as login, password, and username requests.

Metrics:
Key technical attributes, such as response time, availability, failure rate, which are used to assess the performance 
of a software application.

Types of SIEM tools:

-> Self-hosted

-> Cloud-hosted

-> Hybrid

Splunk Enterprise:
A self-hosted used to retain, analyze, and search an organization’s log data to provide security information and 
alerts in real-time.

Splunk Cloud:
A cloud-hosted tool used to collect, search, and monitor log data.

Chronicle:
A cloud-native tool designed to retain, analyze, and search data.

Open-source tools:
Open-source tools are often free to use and can be user friendly. The objective of open-source tools is to provide users 
with software that is built by the public in a collaborative way, which can result in the software being more secure. 
Additionally, open-source tools allow for more customization by users, resulting in a variety of new services built from 
the same open-source software package. 

Software engineers create open-source projects to improve software and make it available for anyone to use, as long as 
the specified license is respected. The source code for open-source projects is readily available to users, as well as 
the training material that accompanies them. Having these sources readily available allows users to modify and improve 
project materials. 

Proprietary tools:
Proprietary tools are developed and owned by a person or company, and users typically pay a fee for usage and training. 
The owners of proprietary tools are the only ones who can access and modify the source code. This means that users 
generally need to wait for updates to be made to the software, and at times they might need to pay a fee for those updates. 
Proprietary software generally allows users to modify a limited number of features to meet individual and organizational needs. 
Examples of proprietary tools include Splunk® and Google SecOps (Chronicle) SIEM tools.


Splunk:-
Splunk offers different SIEM tool options: Splunk® Enterprise and Splunk® Cloud. Both allow you to review an organization's 
data on dashboards. This helps security professionals manage an organization's internal infrastructure by collecting, searching, 
monitoring, and analyzing log data from multiple sources to obtain full visibility into an organization’s everyday operations. 

Review the following Splunk dashboards and their purposes:

Security posture dashboard:
The security posture dashboard is designed for security operations centers (SOCs). It displays the last 24 hours of an 
organization’s notable security-related events and trends and allows security professionals to determine if security 
infrastructure and policies are performing as designed. Security analysts can use this dashboard to monitor and investigate 
potential threats in real time, such as suspicious network activity originating from a specific IP address.

Executive summary dashboard:
The executive summary dashboard analyzes and monitors the overall health of the organization over time. This helps security 
teams improve security measures that reduce risk. Security analysts might use this dashboard to provide high-level insights 
to stakeholders, such as generating a summary of security incidents and trends over a specific period of time.

Incident review dashboard:
The incident review dashboard allows analysts to identify suspicious patterns that can occur in the event of an incident. 
It assists by highlighting higher risk items that need immediate review by an analyst. This dashboard can be very helpful 
because it provides a visual timeline of the events leading up to an incident.

Risk analysis:
The risk analysis dashboard helps analysts identify risk for each risk object (e.g., a specific user, a computer, or 
an IP address). It shows changes in risk-related activity or behavior, such as a user logging in outside of normal working 
hours or unusually high network traffic from a specific computer. A security analyst might use this dashboard to analyze 
the potential impact of vulnerabilities in critical assets, which helps analysts prioritize their risk mitigation efforts.


Chronicle:-
Chronicle is a cloud-native SIEM tool from Google that retains, analyzes, and searches log data to identify potential 
security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. Chronicle allows you to collect and analyze log data according to: 

->A specific asset

->A domain name

->A user

->An IP address

Chronicle provides multiple dashboards that help analysts monitor an organization’s logs, create filters and alerts, and 
track suspicious domain names. 

Review the following Chronicle dashboards and their purposes:

Enterprise insights dashboard:
The enterprise insights dashboard highlights recent alerts. It identifies suspicious domain names in logs, known as indicators 
of compromise (IOCs). Each result is labeled with a confidence score to indicate the likelihood of a threat. It also provides 
a severity level that indicates the significance of each threat to the organization. A security analyst might use this 
dashboard to monitor login or data access attempts related to a critical asset—like an application or system—from unusual 
locations or devices.

Data ingestion and health dashboard:
The data ingestion and health dashboard shows the number of event logs, log sources, and success rates of data being processed 
into Chronicle. A security analyst might use this dashboard to ensure that log sources are correctly configured and that logs 
are received without error. This helps ensure that log related issues are addressed so that the security team has access to 
the log data they need.

IOC matches dashboard:
The IOC matches dashboard indicates the top threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to the organization. Security professionals 
use this dashboard to observe domain names, IP addresses, and device IOCs over time in order to identify trends. This 
information is then used to direct the security team’s focus to the highest priority threats. For example, security analysts 
can use this dashboard to search for additional activity associated with an alert, such as a suspicious user login from an 
unusual geographic location. 