Network interception attacks:
Network interception attacks work by intercepting network traffic and stealing valuable information or interfering with the 
transmission in some way.

Malicious actors can use hardware or software tools to capture and inspect data in transit. This is referred to as packet 
sniffing. In addition to seeing information that they are not entitled to, malicious actors can also intercept network traffic 
and alter it. These attacks can cause damage to an organization’s network by inserting malicious code modifications or altering 
the message and interrupting network operations. For example, an attacker can intercept a bank transfer and change the account 
receiving the funds to one that the attacker controls.

Backdoor attacks:
A backdoor attack is another type of attack you will need to be aware of as a security analyst. An organization may have a lot of 
security measures in place, including cameras, biometric scans and access codes to keep employees from entering and exiting 
without being seen. However, an employee might work around the security measures by finding a backdoor to the building that is 
not as heavily monitored, allowing them to sneak out for the afternoon without being seen. 

In cybersecurity, backdoors are weaknesses intentionally left by programmers or system and network administrators that bypass 
normal access control mechanisms. Backdoors are intended to help programmers conduct troubleshooting or administrative tasks. 
However, backdoors can also be installed by attackers after they’ve compromised an organization to ensure they have persistent 
access.

Once the hacker has entered an insecure network through a backdoor, they can cause extensive damage: installing malware, 
performing a denial of service (DoS) attack, stealing private information or changing other security settings that leaves the 
system vulnerable to other attacks. A DoS attack is an attack that targets a network or server and floods it with network traffic.

Possible impacts on an organization:

 ->Financial: When a system is taken offline with a DoS attack or some other tactic, they prevent a company from performing  
   tasks that generate revenue. Depending on the size of an organization, interrupted operations can cost millions of dollars. 
   Reparation costs to rebuild software infrastructure and to pay large sums associated with potential ransomware can be 
   financially difficult. In addition, if a malicious actor gets access to the personal information of the company’s clients or 
   customers, the company may face heavy litigation and settlement costs if customers seek legal recourse.

 ->Reputation: Attacks can also have a negative impact on the reputation of an organization. If it becomes public knowledge that 
   a company has experienced a cyber attack, the public may become concerned about the security practices of the organization. 
   They may stop trusting the company with their personal information and choose a competitor to fulfill their needs.

 ->Public safety: If an attack occurs on a government network, this can potentially impact the safety and welfare of the citizens 
   of a country. In recent years, defense agencies across the globe are investing heavily in combating cyber warfare tactics. If 
   a malicious actor gained access to a power grid, a public water system, or even a military defense communication system, the 
   public could face physical harm due to a network 

Denial of Service Attack (DoS):
An attack that targets a network or server and floods it with network traffic.

 Distributed Denial of Service Attack (DDoS):
 A type of denial of service attack that uses multiple devices or servers in different locations to flood the target network with 
 unwanted traffic.

 SYN (synchronize) flood attack:
 A type of DoS attack that simulates a TCP connection and floods a server with SYN packets.

 Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP):
 An internet protocol used by devices to tell each other about data transmission errors across the network.

 Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) flood:
 A type of DoS attack performed by an attacker repeatedly sending ICMP packets to a network server.

 Ping of Death:
 A type of Dos attack caused when a hacker pings a system by sending it an oversized ICMP packet that is bigger than 64KB.

tcpdump logs:
A network protocol analyzer, sometimes called a packet sniffer or a packet analyzer, is a tool designed to capture and analyze 
data traffic within a network. They are commonly used as investigative tools to monitor networks and identify suspicious activity. 
There are a wide variety of network protocol analyzers available, but some of the most common analyzers  include:

->SolarWinds NetFlow Traffic Analyzer

->ManageEngine OpManager

->Azure Network Watcher

->Wireshark

->tcpdump

 tcpdump:
 tcpdump is a command-line network protocol analyzer. It is popular, lightweight–meaning it uses little memory and has a low CPU 
 usage–and uses the open-source libpcap library. tcpdump is text based, meaning all commands in tcpdump are executed in the 
 terminal. It can also be installed on other Unix-based operating systems, such as macOS®. It is preinstalled on many Linux 
 distributions.

 tcpdump provides a brief packet analysis and converts key information about network traffic into formats easily read by humans. 
 It prints information about each packet directly into your terminal. tcpdump also displays the source IP address, destination IP 
 addresses, and the port numbers being used in the communications. 

  Interpreting output:
  tcpdump prints the output of the command as the sniffed packets in the command line, and optionally to a log file, after a 
  command is executed. The output of a packet capture contains many pieces of important information about the network traffic. 

  Some information you receive from a packet capture includes: 

  ->Timestamp: The output begins with the timestamp, formatted as hours, minutes, seconds, and fractions of a second.  

  ->Source IP: The packet’s origin is provided by its source IP address.

  ->Source port: This port number is where the packet originated.

  ->Destination IP: The destination IP address is where the packet is being transmitted to.

  ->Destination port: This port number is where the packet is being transmitted to.

  Note: By default, tcpdump will attempt to resolve host addresses to hostnames. It'll also replace port numbers with commonly 
  associated services that use these ports.

 Common uses:
 tcpdump and other network protocol analyzers are commonly used to capture and view network communications and to collect 
 statistics about the network, such as troubleshooting network performance issues. They can also be used to:

 ->Establish a baseline for network traffic patterns and network utilization metrics.

 ->Detect and identify malicious traffic

 ->Create customized alerts to send the right notifications when network issues or security threats arise.

 ->Locate unauthorized instant messaging (IM), traffic, or wireless access points.

 However, attackers can also use network protocol analyzers maliciously to gain information about a specific network. For 
 example, attackers can capture data packets that contain sensitive information, such as account usernames and passwords. As a 
 cybersecurity analyst, It’s important to understand the purpose and uses of network protocol analyzers. 

packet sniffing:
The device’s Network Interface Card (NIC) is a piece of hardware that connects the device to a network. The NIC reads the data 
transmission, and if it contains the device’s MAC address, it accepts the packet and sends it to the device to process the 
information based on the protocol. This occurs in all standard network operations. However, a NIC can be set to promiscuous mode,
which means that it accepts all traffic on the network, even the packets that aren’t addressed to the NIC’s device. You’ll learn 
more about NIC’s later in the program. Malicious actors might use software like Wireshark to capture the data on a private network 
and store it for later use. They can then use the personal information to their own advantage. Alternatively, they might use the 
IP and MAC addresses of authorized users of the private network to perform IP spoofing.

IP spoofing:
After a malicious actor has sniffed packets on the network, they can impersonate the IP and MAC addresses of authorized devices 
to perform an IP spoofing attack. Firewalls can prevent IP spoofing attacks by configuring it to refuse unauthorized IP packets 
and suspicious traffic. 

 ->On-path attack:
 An on-path attack happens when a hacker intercepts the communication between two devices or servers that have a trusted 
 relationship. The transmission between these two trusted network devices could contain valuable information like usernames and 
 passwords that the malicious actor can collect. An on-path attack is sometimes referred to as a meddler-in-the middle attack 
 because the hacker is hiding in the middle of communications between two trusted parties.

 Or, it could be that the intercepted transmission contains a DNS system look-up. You’ll recall from an earlier video that a DNS 
 server translates website domain names into IP addresses. If a malicious actor intercepts a transmission containing a DNS lookup, 
 they could spoof the DNS response from the server and redirect a domain name to a different IP address, perhaps one that contains 
 malicious code or other threats. The most important way to protect against an on-path attack is to encrypt your data in transit, 
 e.g. using TLS. 