Network:
A group of connected devices.

IP and Mac address:
A unique addresses or identifiers to locate other devices on the network.

Local Area Network (LAN):
A network that spans a small area like an office building, a school, or a home. 

Wide Area Network (WAN):
A network that spans a large geographic area like a city, state, or country.

Virtualization tools:
Piece of software that perform network operations.

Network devices:-
Network devices maintain information and services for users of a network. These devices connect over wired and wireless 
connections. After establishing a connection to the network, the devices send data packets. The data packets provide 
information about the source and the destination of the data.  This is how the information is sent and received via 
different devices on a network. 

The network is the overall infrastructure that allows devices to communicate with each other. Network devices are specialized 
vehicles like routers and switches that manage what is being sent and received over the network. Additionally, devices like 
computers and phones connect to the network via network devices. 

Devices and desktop computers:
Most internet users are familiar with everyday devices, such as personal computers, laptops, mobile phones, and tablets. 
Each device and desktop computer has a unique MAC address and IP address, which identify it on the network. They also have a 
network interface that sends and receives data packets. These devices can connect to the network via a hard wire or a wireless 
connection.

Firewalls:
A firewall is a network security device that monitors traffic to or from your network. It is like your first line of defense. 
Firewalls can also restrict specific incoming and outgoing network traffic. The organization configures the security rules of 
the firewall. Firewalls often reside between the secured and controlled internal network and the untrusted network resources 
outside the organization, such as the internet. Remember, though, firewalls are just one line of defense in the cybersecurity 
landscape. 

Servers:
Servers provide information and services for devices like computers, smart home devices, and smartphones on the network. 
The devices that connect to a server are called clients, which is called the client-server model. In this model, clients send 
requests to the server for information and services. The server performs the requests for the clients. Common examples include 
DNS servers that perform domain name lookups for internet sites, file servers that store and retrieve files from a database, 
and corporate mail servers that organize mail for a company. 

Hubs and switches:
Hubs and switches both direct traffic on a local network. A hub is a device that provides a common point of connection for all 
devices directly connected to it. Hubs additionally repeat all information out to all ports. From a security perspective, this 
makes hubs vulnerable to eavesdropping. For this reason, hubs are not used as often on modern networks; most organizations use 
switches instead. Hubs are more commonly used for a limited network setup like a home office. 

Switches are the preferred choice for most networks. A switch forwards packets between devices directly connected to it. 
They analyze the destination address of each data packet and send it to the intended device. Switches maintain a MAC address 
table that matches MAC addresses of devices on the network to port numbers on the switch and forwards incoming data packets 
according to the destination MAC address. Switches are a part of the data link layer in the TCP/IP model. Overall, switches 
improve performance and security.

Routers:
Routers connect networks and direct traffic, based on the IP address of the destination network. Routers allow devices on 
different networks to communicate with each other. In the TCP/IP model, routers are a part of the network layer. The IP address 
of the destination network is contained in the IP header. The router reads the IP header information and forwards the packet to 
the next router on the path to the destination. This continues until the packet reaches the destination network. Routers can 
also include a firewall feature that allows or blocks incoming traffic based on information in the transmission. This stops 
malicious traffic from entering the private network and damaging the local area network.

Modems:
Modems usually connect your home or office with an internet service provider (ISP). ISPs provide internet connectivity via 
telephone lines, coaxial cables, or fiber optic cables. Modems receive transmissions or digital signals from the internet and 
convert them into a digital format compatible with the physical connection provided by your ISP. Usually, modems connect to a 
router that takes the decoded transmissions and sends them on to the local network.

Note: Enterprise networks used by large organizations to connect their users and devices often use other broadband technologies 
to handle high-volume traffic, instead of using a modem. 

Wireless access point:
A wireless access point sends and receives digital signals over radio waves creating a wireless network. Devices with wireless 
adapters connect to the access point using Wi-Fi. Wi-Fi refers to a set of standards that are used by network devices to 
communicate wirelessly. Wireless access points and the devices connected to them use Wi-Fi protocols to send data through radio 
waves where they are sent to routers and switches and directed along the path to their final destination.

Using network diagrams as a security analyst:
Network diagrams allow network administrators and security personnel to imagine the architecture and design of their 
organization’s private network.

Network diagrams are maps that show the devices on the network and how they connect. Network diagrams use small representative 
graphics to portray each network device and dotted lines to show how each device connects to the other. By studying network 
diagrams, security analysts develop and refine their strategies for securing network architectures.

Cloud computing:-
Traditional networks are called on-premise networks, which means that all of the devices used for network operations are kept 
at a physical location owned by the company, like in an office building, for example. Cloud computing, however, refers to the 
practice of using remote servers, applications, and network services that are hosted on the internet instead of at a physical 
location owned by the company.

A cloud service provider (CSP) is a company that offers cloud computing services. These companies own large data centers in 
locations around the globe that house millions of servers. Data centers provide technology services, such as storage, and 
compute at such a large scale that they can sell their services to other companies for a fee. Companies can pay for the storage 
and services they need and consume them through the CSP’s application programming interface (API) or web console.

CSPs provide three main categories of services:

->Software as a service (SaaS) refers to software suites operated by the CSP that a company can use remotely without hosting 
the software. 

->Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) refers to the use of virtual computer components offered by the CSP. These include virtual 
containers and storage that are configured remotely through the CSP’s API or web console. Cloud-compute and storage services 
can be used to operate existing applications and other technology workloads without significant modifications. Existing 
applications can be modified to take advantage of the availability, performance, and security features that are unique to 
cloud provider services.

->Platform as a service (PaaS) refers to tools that application developers can use to design custom applications for their company. 
Custom applications are designed and accessed in the cloud and used for a company’s specific business needs.

Cloud network:
A collection of servers or computers that stores resources and data in remove data centers that can be accessed via the 
internet.

Hybrid cloud environments:
When organizations use a CSP’s services in addition to their on-premise computers, networks, and storage, it is referred to 
as a hybrid cloud environment. When organizations use more than one CSP, it is called a multi-cloud environment. The vast 
majority of organizations use hybrid cloud environments to reduce costs and maintain control over network resources.

Software-defined networks:
Software-defined networks (SDNs) are made up of virtual network devices and services. Just like CSPs provide virtual computers, 
many SDNs also provide virtual switches, routers, firewalls, and more. Most modern network hardware devices also support network 
virtualization and software-defined networking. This means that physical switches and routers use software to perform packet 
routing. In the case of cloud networking, the SDN tools are hosted on servers located at the CSP’s data center.

Benefits of cloud computing and software-defined networks:-
Three of the main reasons that cloud computing is so attractive to businesses are reliability, decreased cost, and increased 
scalability. 

->Reliability:
Reliability in cloud computing is based on how available cloud services and resources are, how secure connections are, and how 
often the services are effectively running. Cloud computing allows employees and customers to access the resources they need 
consistently and with minimal interruption. 

->Cost:
Traditionally, companies have had to provide their own network infrastructure, at least for internet connections. This meant 
there could be potentially significant upfront costs for companies. However, because CSPs have such large data centers, they 
are able to offer virtual devices and services at a fraction of the cost required for companies to install, patch, upgrade, 
and manage the components and software themselves.

->Scalability:
Another challenge that companies face with traditional computing is scalability. When organizations experience an increase in 
their business needs, they might be forced to buy more equipment and software to keep up. But what if business decreases shortly 
after? They might no longer have the business to justify the cost incurred by the upgraded components. CSPs reduce this risk by 
making it easy to consume services in an elastic utility model as needed. This means that companies only pay for what they need 
when they need it. 

Changes can be made quickly through the CSPs, APIs, or web console—much more quickly than if network technicians had to purchase 
their own hardware and set it up. For example, if a company needs to protect against a threat to their network, web application 
firewalls (WAFs), intrusion detection/protection systems (IDS/IPS), or L3/L4 firewalls can be configured quickly whenever 
necessary, leading to better network performance and security.

Data packet:
A basic unit of information that travels from one device to another within a network.

Bandwidth:
The amount of data a device receives every second.

Speed:
The rate at which data packets are received or downloaded.

Packet sniffing:
The practice of capturing and inspecting data packets across a network.

Transmission Control Protocol (TCP):
An internet communication protocol that allows two devices to form a connection and stream data.

Internet Protocol (IP):
A set of standards used for routing and addressing data packets as they travel between devices on a network.

Port:-
A software-based location that organizes the sending and receiving of data between devices on a network.

Port numbers:

->Port 25 - Email

->Port 443 - Secure internet communication

->Port 20 - Large file transfers

TCP/IP model:-
A framework used to visualize how data is organized and transmitted across the network.

1. Network access layer

2. Internet layer