Security Hardening:
The process of strengthening a system to reduce its vulnerability and attack surface.

 Attack Surface:
 All the potential vulnerabilities that a threat actor could exploit.

 Security Hardening is conducted on:
 ->Hardware

 ->Operating System 

 ->Applications

 ->Computer networks

Penetration Test:
A simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in system, networks, websites, applications, and processes.

Operating System (OS):
The interface between computer hardware and the user.

 Patch Update:
 A software and operating system update that addresses security vulnerabilities within a program or product.

 Baseline Configuration (baseline image):
 A documented set of specifiations within a system that is used as a basis for future builds, releases, and updates.

Multi-factor authentication (MFA):
A security measure which requires a user to verify their identity in two or more ways to access a system or network.

 Categories fo multi-factor identification:
 ->Something you know

 ->Something you have

 ->Something unique about you

Brute Force AttacksL
A brute force attack is a trial-and-error process of discovering private information. There are different types of brute force 
attacks that malicious actors use to guess passwords, including: 

 ->Simple brute force attacks. When attackers try to guess a user's login credentials, it’s considered a simple brute force attack. 
   They might do this by entering any combination of usernames and passwords that they can think of until they find the one that 
   works.

 ->Dictionary attacks use a similar technique. In dictionary attacks, attackers use a list of commonly used passwords and stolen 
   credentials from previous breaches to access a system. These are called “dictionary” attacks because attackers originally used 
   a list of words from the dictionary to guess the passwords, before complex password rules became a common security practice. 

Using brute force to access a system can be a tedious and time consuming process, especially when it’s done manually. There are a 
range of tools attackers use to conduct their attacks. 

Assessing Vulnerabilities:
Before a brute force attack or other cybersecurity incident occurs, companies can run a series of tests on their network or web 
applications to assess vulnerabilities. Analysts can use virtual machines and sandboxes to test suspicious files, check for 
vulnerabilities before an event occurs, or to simulate a cybersecurity incident.

 Virtual machines (VMs):
 Virtual machines (VMs) are software versions of physical computers. VMs provide an additional layer of security for an 
 organization because they can be used to run code in an isolated environment, preventing malicious code from affecting the rest 
 of the computer or system. VMs can also be deleted and replaced by a pristine image after testing malware. 

 VMs are useful when investigating potentially infected machines or running malware in a constrained environment. Using a VM may 
 prevent damage to your system in the event its tools are used improperly. VMs also give you the ability to revert to a previous 
 state. However, there are still some risks involved with VMs. There’s still a small risk that a malicious program can escape 
 virtualization and access the host machine. 

 You can test and explore applications easily with VMs, and it’s easy to switch between different VMs from your computer. This 
 can also help in streamlining many security tasks.

 Sandbox environments
 A sandbox is a type of testing environment that allows you to execute software or programs separate from your network. They are 
 commonly used for testing patches, identifying and addressing bugs, or detecting cybersecurity vulnerabilities. Sandboxes can 
 also be used to evaluate suspicious software, evaluate files containing malicious code, and simulate attack scenarios. 

 Sandboxes can be stand-alone physical computers that are not connected to a network; however, it is often more time- and 
 cost-effective to use software or cloud-based virtual machines as sandbox environments. Note that some malware authors know how 
 to write code to detect if the malware is executed in a VM or sandbox environment. Attackers can program their malware to behave 
 as harmless software when run inside these types of  testing environments. 

Prevention measures:
Some common measures organizations use to prevent brute force attacks and similar attacks from occurring include: 

 ->Salting and hashing: Hashing converts information into a unique value that can then be used to determine its integrity. It is 
   a one-way function, meaning it is impossible to decrypt and obtain the original text. Salting adds random characters to hashed 
   passwords. This increases the length and complexity of hash values, making them more secure.

 ->Multi-factor authentication (MFA) and two-factor authentication (2FA): MFA is a security measure which requires a user to 
   verify their identity in two or more ways to access a system or network. This verification happens using a combination of 
   authentication factors: a username and password, fingerprints, facial recognition, or a one-time password (OTP) sent to a phone 
   number or email. 2FA is similar to MFA, except it uses only two forms of verification.

 ->CAPTCHA and reCAPTCHA: CAPTCHA stands for Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart. It asks 
   users to complete a simple test that proves they are human. This helps prevent software from trying to brute force a password. 
   reCAPTCHA is a free CAPTCHA service from Google that helps protect websites from bots and malicious software.

 ->Password policies: Organizations use password policies to standardize good password practices throughout the business. 
   Policies can include guidelines on how complex a password should be, how often users need to update passwords, whether passwords 
   can be reused or not, and if there are limits to how many times a user can attempt to log in before their account is suspended.

Network Security Hardening:
 ->Port Filtering: A firewall function that blocks or allows certain port numbers to limit unwanted communication.

 ->Network Access Privilage

 ->Encryption

 Tasks Performed:
  ->Firewll rules maintenance

  ->Network log analysis: The process of examining network logs to identify events of interest.

  ->Patch updates

  ->Server backups

 Firewall:
 Most firewalls are similar in their basic functions. Firewalls allow or block traffic based on a set of rules. As data packets 
 enter a network, the packet header is inspected and allowed or denied based on its port number. NGFWs are also able to inspect 
 packet payloads. Each system should have its own firewall, regardless of the network firewall.

 Intrusion Detection System: 
 An intrusion detection system (IDS) is an application that monitors system activity and alerts on possible intrusions. An IDS 
 alerts administrators based on the signature of malicious traffic.

 The IDS is configured to detect known attacks. IDS systems often sniff data packets as they move across the network and analyze 
 them for the characteristics of known attacks. Some IDS systems review not only for signatures of known attacks, but also for 
 anomalies that could be the sign of malicious activity. When the IDS discovers an anomaly, it sends an alert to the network 
 administrator who can then investigate further.

 The limitations to IDS systems are that they can only scan for known attacks or obvious anomalies. New and sophisticated attacks 
 might not be caught. The other limitation is that the IDS doesn’t actually stop the incoming traffic if it detects something awry. 
 It’s up to the network administrator to catch the malicious activity before it does anything damaging to the network.

 When combined with a firewall, an IDS adds another layer of defense. The IDS is placed behind the firewall and before entering 
 the LAN, which allows the IDS to analyze data streams after network traffic that is disallowed by the firewall has been filtered 
 out. This is done to reduce noise in IDS alerts, also referred to as false positives. 

 Intrusion Prevention System: 
 An intrusion prevention system (IPS) is an application that monitors system activity for intrusive activity and takes action to 
 stop the activity. It offers even more protection than an IDS because it actively stops anomalies when they are detected, unlike 
 the IDS that simply reports the anomaly to a network administrator.

 An IPS searches for signatures of known attacks and data anomalies. An IPS reports the anomaly to security analysts and blocks a 
 specific sender or drops network packets that seem suspect. 

 The IPS (like an IDS) sits behind the firewall in the network architecture. This offers a high level of security because risky 
 data streams are disrupted before they even reach sensitive parts of the network. However, one potential limitation is that it 
 is inline: If it breaks, the connection between the private network and the internet breaks. Another limitation of IPS is the 
 possibility of false positives, which can result in legitimate traffic getting dropped.

 Full packet capture devices: 
 Full packet capture devices can be incredibly useful for network administrators and security professionals. These devices allow 
 you to record and analyze all of the data that is transmitted over your network. They also aid in investigating alerts created 
 by an IDS. 

 Security Information and Event Management:
 A security information and event management system (SIEM) is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor 
 critical activities in an organization. SIEM tools work in real time to report suspicious activity in a centralized dashboard. 
 SIEM tools additionally analyze network log data sourced from IDSs, IPSs, firewalls, VPNs, proxies, and DNS logs. SIEM tools are 
 a way to aggregate security event data so that it all appears in one place for security analysts to analyze. This is referred to 
 as a single pane of glass. 

Cloud security considerations:
Many organizations choose to use cloud services because of the ease of deployment, speed of deployment, cost savings, and 
scalability of these options. Cloud computing presents unique security challenges that cybersecurity analysts need to be aware of. 

 Identity access management:
 Identity access management (IAM) is a collection of processes and technologies that helps organizations manage digital identities 
 in their environment. This service also authorizes how users can use different cloud resources. A common problem that 
 organizations face when using the cloud is the loose configuration of cloud user roles. An improperly configured user role 
 increases risk by allowing unauthorized users to have access to critical cloud operations. 
 
 Configuration
 The expanding cloud ecosystem introduces significant complexity to network management. Each cloud service necessitates precise 
 configuration to uphold security and compliance standards. This challenge intensifies during cloud migrations, where ensuring 
 accurate configuration for every migrated process is critical. Neglect in this area can expose the network to vulnerabilities. 
 Misconfigured cloud services are a frequent source of security breaches, underscoring the importance of meticulous attention to
 detail by network administrators and architects during the migration and ongoing management of cloud services.

 Attack surface:
 Cloud service providers (CSPs) offer numerous applications and services for organizations at a low cost. 

 Every service or application on a network carries its own set of risks and vulnerabilities and increases an organization’s 
 overall attack surface. An increased attack surface must be compensated for with increased security measures.

 Cloud networks that utilize many services introduce lots of entry points into an organization’s network. However, if the network 
 is designed correctly, utilizing several services does not introduce more entry points into an organization’s network design. 
 These entry points can be used to introduce malware onto the network and pose other security vulnerabilities. It is important to
 note that CSPs often defer to more secure options, and have undergone more scrutiny than a traditional on-premises network. 

 Zero-day attacks:
 Zero-day attacks are an important security consideration for organizations using cloud or traditional on-premise network 
 solutions. A zero day attack is an exploit that was previously unknown. CSPs are more likely to know about a zero day attack 
 occurring before a traditional IT organization does. CSPs have ways of patching hypervisors and migrating workloads to other 
 virtual machines. These methods ensure the customers are not impacted by the attack. There are also several tools available for
 patching at the operating system level that organizations can use.

 Visibility and tracking:
 Network administrators have access to every data packet crossing the network with both on-premise and cloud networks. They can 
 sniff and inspect data packets to learn about network performance or to check for possible threats and attacks.

 This kind of visibility is also offered in the cloud through flow logs and tools, such as packet mirroring. CSPs take 
 responsibility for security in the cloud, but they do not allow the organizations that use their infrastructure to monitor 
 traffic on the CSP’s servers. Many CSPs offer strong security measures to protect their infrastructure. Still, this situation 
 might be a concern for organizations that are accustomed to having full access to their network and operations. CSPs pay for 
 third-party audits to verify how secure a cloud network is and identify potential vulnerabilities. The audits can help 
 organizations identify whether any vulnerabilities originate from on-premise infrastructure and if there are any compliance 
 lapses from their CSP. 

 Things change fast in the cloud
 CSPs are large organizations that work hard to stay up-to-date with technology advancements. For organizations that are used to 
 being in control of any adjustments made to their network, this can be a potential challenge to keep up with. Cloud service 
 updates can affect security considerations for the organizations using them. For example, connection configurations might need 
 to be changed based on the CSP’s updates. 

 Organizations that use CSPs usually have to update their IT processes. It is possible for organizations to continue following 
 established best practices for changes, configurations, and other security considerations. However, an organization might have 
 to adopt a different approach in a way that aligns with changes made by the CSP. 

 Cloud networking offers various options that might appear attractive to a small company—options that they could never afford to 
 build on their own premises. However, it is important to consider that each service adds complexity to the security profile of 
 the organization, and they will need security personnel to monitor all of the cloud services. 

 Shared responsibility model:
 A commonly accepted cloud security principle is the shared responsibility model. The shared responsibility model states that the 
 CSP must take responsibility for security involving the cloud infrastructure, including physical data centers, hypervisors, and
 host operating systems. The company using the cloud service is responsible for the assets and processes that they store or operate 
 in the cloud.

 The shared responsibility model ensures that both the CSP and the users agree about where their responsibility for security 
 begins and ends. A problem occurs when organizations assume that the CSP is taking care of security that they have not taken 
 responsibility for. One example of this is cloud applications and configurations. The CSP takes responsibility for securing the 
 cloud, but it is the organization’s responsibility to ensure that services are configured properly according to the security 
 requirements of their organization. 
