Operating System (OS):
The interface between computer hardware and the user.

 Windows and macOS:
 Windows and macOS are both common operating systems. The Windows operating system was introduced in 1985, and macOS was 
 introduced in 1984. Both operating systems are used in personal and enterprise computers. 

 Windows is a closed-source operating system, which means the source code is not shared freely with the public. macOS is partially 
 open source. It has some open-source components, such as macOS’s kernel. macOS also has some closed-source components. 

 Linux:
 The first version of Linux was released in 1991, and other major releases followed in the early 1990s. Linux is a completely 
 open-source operating system, which means that anyone can access Linux and its source code. The open-source nature of Linux 
 allows developers in the Linux community to collaborate.

 Linux is particularly important to the security industry. There are some distributions that are specifically designed for 
 security. Later in this course, you’ll learn about Linux and its importance to the security industry.

 ChromeOS:
 ChromeOS launched in 2011. It’s partially open source and is derived from Chromium OS, which is completely open source. ChromeOS 
 is frequently used in the education field.

 Android and iOS:
 Android and iOS are both mobile operating systems. Unlike the other operating systems mentioned, mobile operating systems are 
 typically used in mobile devices, such as phones, tablets, and watches. Android was introduced for public use in 2008, and iOS 
 was introduced in 2007. Android is open source, and iOS is partially open source.

Operating systems and vulnerabilities:
Security issues are inevitable with all operating systems. An important part of protecting an operating system is keeping the 
system and all of its components up to date.

 Legacy operating systems:
 A legacy operating system is an operating system that is outdated but still being used. Some organizations continue to use legacy 
 operating systems because software they rely on is not compatible with newer operating systems. This can be more common in 
 industries that use a lot of equipment that requires embedded software—software that’s placed inside components of the equipment.

 Legacy operating systems can be vulnerable to security issues because they’re no longer supported or updated. This means that 
 legacy operating systems might be vulnerable to new threats. 

 Other vulnerabilities:
 Even when operating systems are kept up to date, they can still become vulnerable to attack. Below are several resources that 
 include information on operating systems and their vulnerabilities.

 ->Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC): A list of known vulnerabilities affecting Microsoft products and services

 ->Apple Security Updates: A list of security updates and information for Apple® operating systems, including macOS and iOS, and 
   other products

 ->Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) Report for Ubuntu: A list of known vulnerabilities affecting Ubuntu, which is a 
   specific distribution of Linux

 ->Google Cloud Security Bulletin: A list of known vulnerabilities affecting Google Cloud products and services

 Keeping an operating system up to date is one key way to help the system stay secure. Because it can be difficult to keep all 
 systems updated at all times, it’s important for security analysts to be knowledgeable about legacy operating systems and the 
 risks they can create.

Booting the computer:
When you boot, or turn on, your computer, either a BIOS or UEFI microchip is activated. The Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) is a 
microchip that contains loading instructions for the computer and is prevalent in older systems. The Unified Extensible Firmware 
Interface (UEFI) is a microchip that contains loading instructions for the computer and replaces BIOS on more modern systems.

The BIOS and UEFI chips both perform the same function for booting the computer. BIOS was the standard chip until 2007, when UEFI 
chips increased in use. Now, most new computers include a UEFI chip. UEFI provides enhanced security features.

The BIOS or UEFI microchips contain a variety of loading instructions for the computer to follow. For example, one of the loading 
instructions is to verify the health of the computer’s hardware.

The last instruction from the BIOS or UEFI activates the bootloader. The bootloader is a software program that boots the operating 
system. Once the operating system has finished booting, your computer is ready for use.

 Completing a task:
 Operating systems help us use computers more efficiently. Once a computer has gone through the booting process, completing a task 
 on a computer is a four-part process.

 The process moves from user to application to operating systems and finally to hardware.

  User:
  The first part of the process is the user. The user initiates the process by having something they want to accomplish on the 
  computer. Right now, you’re a user!  You’ve initiated the process of accessing this reading.

  Application:
  The application is the software program that users interact with to complete a task. For example, if you want to calculate 
  something, you would use the calculator application. If you want to write a report, you would use a word processing application. 
  This is the second part of the process.

  Operating system:
  The operating system receives the user’s request from the application. It’s the operating system’s job to interpret the request 
  and direct its flow. In order to complete the task, the operating system sends it on to applicable components of the hardware.

  Hardware:
  The hardware is where all the processing is done to complete the tasks initiated by the user. For example, when a user wants to 
  calculate a number, the CPU figures out the answer. As another example, when a user wants to save a file, another component of 
  the hardware, the hard drive, handles this task. 

  After the work is done by the hardware, it sends the output back through the operating system to the application so that it can 
  display the results to the user.

 The OS at work behind the scenes:
 Consider once again how a computer is similar to a car. There are processes that someone won’t directly observe when operating a 
 car, but they do feel it move forward when they press the gas pedal. It’s the same with a computer. Important work happens inside 
 a computer that you don’t experience directly. This work involves the operating system.

 You can explore this through another analogy. The process of using an operating system is also similar to ordering at a 
 restaurant. At a restaurant you place an order and get your food, but you don’t see what’s happening in the kitchen when the 
 cooks prepare the food.

 Ordering food is similar to using an application on a computer. When you order your food, you make a specific request like “a 
 small soup, very hot.” When you use an application, you also make specific requests like “print three double-sided copies of 
 this document.” 

 You can compare the food you receive to what happens when the hardware sends output. You receive the food that you ordered. You 
 receive the document that you wanted to print. 

 Finally, the kitchen is like the OS. You don’t know what happens in the kitchen, but it’s critical in interpreting the request 
 and ensuring you receive what you ordered. Similarly, though the work of the OS is not directly transparent to you, it’s critical 
 in completing your tasks.

Virtual Machine:
A virtual machine (VM) is a virtual version of a physical computer. Virtual machines are one example of virtualization. 
Virtualization is the process of using software to create virtual representations of various physical machines. The term “virtual” 
refers to machines that don’t exist physically, but operate like they do because their software simulates physical hardware. 
Virtual systems don’t use dedicated physical hardware. Instead, they use software-defined versions of the physical hardware. 
This means that a single virtual machine has a virtual CPU, virtual storage, and other virtual hardware. Virtual systems are just 
code.

You can run multiple virtual machines using the physical hardware of a single computer. This involves dividing the resources of 
the host computer to be shared across all physical and virtual components. For example, Random Access Memory (RAM) is a hardware 
component used for short-term memory. If a computer has 16GB of RAM, it can host three virtual machines so that the physical 
computer and virtual machines each have 4GB of RAM. Also, each of these virtual machines would have their own operating system 
and function similarly to a typical computer.

 Benefits of virtual machines:
 Security professionals commonly use virtualization and virtual machines. Virtualization can increase security for many tasks and 
 can also increase efficiency.

  Security:
  One benefit is that virtualization can provide an isolated environment, or a sandbox, on the physical host machine. When a 
  computer has multiple virtual machines, these virtual machines are “guests” of the computer. Specifically, they are isolated 
  from the host computer and other guest virtual machines. This provides a layer of security, because virtual machines can be kept 
  separate from the other systems. For example, if an individual virtual machine becomes infected with malware, it can be dealt 
  with more securely because it’s isolated from the other machines. A security professional could also intentionally place malware 
  on a virtual machine to examine it in a more secure environment.

  Note: Although using virtual machines is useful when investigating potentially infected machines or running malware in a 
  constrained environment, there are still some risks. For example, a malicious program can escape virtualization and access the 
  host machine. This is why you should never completely trust virtualized systems.