CyberSeurity is the practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA Triad) of information by proctecting
networks, devices, people, and the data fom unauthorized access or criminal exploitation.

Benefits of Security:

->Protects against external and internal threats.

->Meets regulatory compliance.

->Maintains and improves business productivity.

->Reduces expenses.

->Maintains brand's trust.


Key Concepts:-


Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations and enables organizations to avoid fines 
and security breaches.

Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy.

Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to 
establish a strong security posture.

Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. 
A strong security posture leads to lower risk for the organization.

A threat actor, or malicious attacker, is any person or group who presents a security risk. This risk can relate to computers,
applications, networks, and data.

An internal threat can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. 
At times, an internal threat is accidental. For example, an employee who accidentally clicks on a malicious email link would 
be considered an accidental threat. Other times, the internal threat actor intentionally engages in risky activities, such as 
unauthorized data access.

Network security is the practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. 
This includes data, services, systems, and devices that are stored in an organization’s network.

Cloud security is the process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured, or set up correctly, and 
access to those assets is limited to authorized users. The cloud is a network made up of a collection of servers or computers 
that store resources and data in remote physical locations known as data centers that can be accessed via the internet. 
Cloud security is a growing subfield of cybersecurity that specifically focuses on the protection of data, applications, and 
infrastructure in the cloud.

Programming is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. 
These tasks can include:

->Automation of repetitive tasks (e.g., searching a list of malicious domains)

->Reviewing web traffic 

->Alerting suspicious activity


Technical Skills of Security Analyst:-

Programming languages: By understanding how to use programming languages, cybersecurity analysts can automate tasks that 
would otherwise be very time consuming. Examples of tasks that programming can be used for include searching data to identify 
potential threats or organizing and analyzing information to identify patterns related to security issues.

Security information and event management (SIEM) tools: SIEM tools collect and analyze log data, or records of events such as 
unusual login behavior, and support analysts’ ability to monitor critical activities in an organization. This helps cybersecurity 
professionals identify and analyze potential security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities more efficiently.

Intrusion detection systems (IDSs): Cybersecurity analysts use IDSs to monitor system activity and alerts for possible intrusions. 
It’s important to become familiar with IDSs because they’re a key tool that every organization uses to protect assets and data. 
For example, you might use an IDS to monitor networks for signs of malicious activity, like unauthorized access to a network.

Threat landscape knowledge: Being aware of current trends related to threat actors, malware, or threat methodologies is vital. 
This knowledge allows security teams to build stronger defenses against threat actor tactics and techniques. By staying up to 
date on attack trends and patterns, security professionals are better able to recognize when new types of threats emerge such 
as a new ransomware variant. 

Incident response: Cybersecurity analysts need to be able to follow established policies and procedures to respond to incidents 
appropriately. For example, a security analyst might receive an alert about a possible malware attack, then follow the 
organization’s outlined procedures to start the incident response process. This could involve conducting an investigation to
identify the root issue and establishing ways to remediate it.