Encryption:
The eprocess of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format.

Authentication:
The process of verifying who someone or something is.

Biometrics:
Unique physical characteristics that can be used to verify a person's identity.

Authorization:
The concept of granting access to specific resources within a system.

Frameworks and controls:-
Security frameworks: are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy. 
Frameworks support organizations’ ability to adhere to compliance laws and regulations. For example, the healthcare industry 
uses frameworks to comply with the United States’ Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which requires 
that medical professionals keep patient information safe. 

Security controls: are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. Security controls are the measures organizations 
use to lower risk and threats to data and privacy. For example, a control that can be used alongside frameworks to ensure a 
hospital remains compliant with HIPAA is requiring that patients use multi-factor authentication (MFA) to access their medical 
records. Using a measure like MFA to validate someone’s identity is one way to help mitigate potential risks and threats to 
private data.

Specific frameworks and controls:-

Cyber Threat Framework (CTF):
According to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the CTF was developed by the U.S. government to provide “a 
common language for describing and communicating information about cyber threat activity.” By providing a common language to 
communicate information about threat activity, the CTF helps cybersecurity professionals analyze and share information more 
efficiently. This allows organizations to improve their response to the constantly evolving cybersecurity landscape and threat 
actors' many tactics and techniques.

International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 27001
An internationally recognized and used framework is ISO/IEC 27001. The ISO 27000 family of standards enables organizations of 
all sectors and sizes to manage the security of assets, such as financial information, intellectual property, employee data, 
and information entrusted to third parties. This framework outlines requirements for an information security management system, 
best practices, and controls that support an organization’s ability to manage risks. Although the ISO/IEC 27001 framework does 
not require the use of specific controls, it does provide a collection of controls that organizations can use to improve their 
security posture. 

Controls:
Controls are used alongside frameworks to reduce the possibility and impact of a security threat, risk, or vulnerability. 
Controls can be physical, technical, and administrative and are typically used to prevent, detect, or correct security issues.

Examples of physical controls:

->Gates, fences, and locks

->Security guards

->Closed-circuit television (CCTV), surveillance cameras, and motion detectors

->Access cards or badges to enter office spaces

Examples of technical controls:

->Firewalls

->MFA

->Antivirus software

Examples of administrative controls:

->Separation of duties

->Authorization

->Asset classification


The CIA triad for analysts:-
The CIA triad is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies. 
It is made up of three elements that cybersecurity analysts and organizations work toward upholding: confidentiality, integrity, 
and availability. Maintaining an acceptable level of risk and ensuring systems and policies are designed with these elements in 
mind helps establish a successful security posture, which refers to an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical 
assets and data and react to change. 

Confidentiality:
Confidentiality is the idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. In an organization, confidentiality 
can be enhanced through the implementation of design principles, such as the principle of least privilege. The principle of least 
privilege limits users' access to only the information they need to complete work-related tasks. Limiting access is one way of 
maintaining the confidentiality and security of private data. 

Integrity:
Integrity is the idea that the data is verifiably correct, authentic, and reliable. Having protocols in place to verify the 
authenticity of data is essential. One way to verify data integrity is through cryptography, which is used to transform data 
so unauthorized parties cannot read or tamper with it (NIST, 2022). Another example of how an organization might implement 
integrity is by enabling encryption, which is the process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format. 
Encryption can be used to prevent access and ensure data, such as messages on an organization's internal chat platform, 
cannot be tampered with.  

Availability:
Availability is the idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to use it. When a system adheres to both 
availability and confidentiality principles, data can be used when needed. In the workplace, this could mean that the 
organization allows remote employees to access its internal network to perform their jobs. It’s worth noting that access 
to data on the internal network is still limited, depending on what type of access employees need to do their jobs. If, 
for example, an employee works in the organization’s accounting department, they might need access to corporate accounts 
but not data related to ongoing development projects. 


NIST Cybersecurity Framework(CSF):
A voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk.

NIST CSF focuses on five core functions:-

1.Govern.

2.Identify: The management of cybersecurity risk and its effect on an organization's people and assets.

3.Protect: The strategy used to protect an organization through the implementation of policies, procedures, training, 
and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats.

4.Detect: Identifying potential security incidents and improving monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and 
efficiency of detections.

5.Respond: Making sure that the proper procedures are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents,
and implement improvements to the security process.

6.Recover: The process of returning affected systems back to normal operation.

NIST S.P. 800-53:
A unified framework for protecting the security of information systems within the federal government.


Security principles:
In the workplace, security principles are embedded in your daily tasks. Whether you are analyzing logs, monitoring a security 
information and event management (SIEM) dashboard, or using a vulnerability scanner, you will use these principles in some way.

->Minimize attack surface area: Attack surface refers to all the potential vulnerabilities a threat actor could exploit.

->Principle of least privilege: Users have the least amount of access required to perform their everyday tasks.

->Defense in depth: Organizations should have varying security controls that mitigate risks and threats.

->Separation of duties: Critical actions should rely on multiple people, each of whom follow the principle of least privilege. 

->Keep security simple: Avoid unnecessarily complicated solutions. Complexity makes security difficult. 

->Fix security issues correctly: When security incidents occur, identify the root cause, contain the impact, identify 
vulnerabilities, and conduct tests to ensure that remediation is successful.


Additional OWASP security principles:-

Establish secure defaults:
This principle means that the optimal security state of an application is also its default state for users; it should take extra 
work to make the application insecure. 

Fail securely:
Fail securely means that when a control fails or stops, it should do so by defaulting to its most secure option. For example, 
when a firewall fails it should simply close all connections and block all new ones, rather than start accepting everything.

Don’t trust services:
Many organizations work with third-party partners. These outside partners often have different security policies than the 
organization does. And the organization shouldn’t explicitly trust that their partners’ systems are secure. For example, 
if a third-party vendor tracks reward points for airline customers, the airline should ensure that the balance is accurate 
before sharing that information with their customers.

Avoid security by obscurity:
The security of key systems should not rely on keeping details hidden.
The security of an application should not rely on keeping the source code secret. Its security should rely upon many other 
factors, including reasonable password policies, defense in depth, business transaction limits, solid network architecture, 
and fraud and audit controls.


Security audits:
A security audit is a review of an organization's security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectations. 
Audits are independent reviews that evaluate whether an organization is meeting internal and external criteria. Internal criteria 
include outlined policies, procedures, and best practices. External criteria include regulatory compliance, laws, and federal 
regulations. 

Additionally, a security audit can be used to assess an organization's established security controls. 

Audits help ensure that security checks are made (i.e., daily monitoring of security information and event management dashboards), 
to identify threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. This helps maintain an organization’s security posture. And, if there are 
security issues, a remediation process must be in place.

Goals and objectives of an audit:
The goal of an audit is to ensure an organization's information technology (IT) practices are meeting industry and 
organizational standards. The objective is to identify and address areas of remediation and growth. Audits provide direction 
and clarity by identifying what the current failures are and developing a plan to correct them. 

Security audits must be performed to safeguard data and avoid penalties and fines from governmental agencies. The frequency of 
audits is dependent on local laws and federal compliance regulations.