Linux:
An open-source operating system.

Linux architecture:
A request to complete a task starts with the user and then flows through applications, the shell, the Filesystem Hierarchy 
Standard, the kernel, and the hardware.

 User:
 The user is the person interacting with a computer. They initiate and manage computer tasks. Linux is a multi-user system, which 
 means that multiple users can use the same resources at the same time.

 Applications:
 An application is a program that performs a specific task. There are many different applications on your computer. Some 
 applications typically come pre-installed on your computer, such as calculators or calendars. Other applications might have to 
 be installed, such as some web browsers or email clients. In Linux, you'll often use a package manager to install applications. 
 A package manager is a tool that helps users install, manage, and remove packages or applications. A package is a piece of 
 software that can be combined with other packages to form an application.

 Shell
 The shell is the command-line interpreter. Everything entered into the shell is text based. The shell allows users to give 
 commands to the kernel and receive responses from it. You can think of the shell as a translator between you and your computer. 
 The shell translates the commands you enter so that the computer can perform the tasks you want.

 Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS):
 The Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) is the component of the Linux OS that organizes data. It specifies the location where 
 data is stored in the operating system. 

 A directory is a file that organizes where other files are stored. Directories are sometimes called “folders,” and they can 
 contain files or other directories. The FHS defines how directories, directory contents, and other storage is organized so the 
 operating system knows where to find specific data. 

 Kernel:
 The kernel is the component of the Linux OS that manages processes and memory. It communicates with the applications to route 
 commands. The Linux kernel is unique to the Linux OS and is critical for allocating resources in the system. The kernel controls 
 all major functions of the hardware, which can help get tasks expedited more efficiently.

 Hardware:
 The hardware is the physical components of a computer. Hardware is categorized as either peripheral or internal. 

  Peripheral devices:
  Peripheral devices are hardware components that are attached and controlled by the computer system. They are not core components 
  needed to run the computer system. Peripheral devices can be added or removed freely. Examples of peripheral devices include 
  monitors, printers, the keyboard, and the mouse.

  Internal hardware:
  Internal hardware are the components required to run the computer. Internal hardware includes a main circuit board and all 
  components attached to it. This main circuit board is also called the motherboard. Internal hardware includes the following: 

  ->The Central Processing Unit (CPU) is a computer’s main processor, which is used to perform general computing tasks on a 
    computer. The CPU executes the instructions provided by programs, which enables these programs to run. 

  ->Random Access Memory (RAM) is a hardware component used for short-term memory. It’s where data is stored temporarily as you 
    perform tasks on your computer. For example, if you’re writing a report on your computer, the data needed for this is stored 
    in RAM. After you’ve finished writing the report and closed down that program, this data is deleted from RAM. Information in 
    RAM cannot be accessed once the computer has been turned off. The CPU takes the data from RAM to run programs. 

  ->The hard drive is a hardware component used for long-term memory. It’s where programs and files are stored for the computer to 
    access later. Information on the hard drive can be accessed even after a computer has been turned off and on again. A computer 
    can have multiple hard drives.

Linux distributions:
There are multiple other Linux distributions that security analysts should be familiar with.

 KALI LINUX ™:
 KALI LINUX ™ is an open-source distribution of Linux that is widely used in the security industry. This is because KALI LINUX ™,
 which is Debian-based, is pre-installed with many useful tools for penetration testing and digital forensics. A penetration test 
 is a simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, websites, applications, and processes. Digital 
 forensics is the practice of collecting and analyzing data to determine what has happened after an attack. These are key 
 activities in the security industry. 

 However, KALI LINUX ™ is not the only Linux distribution that is used in cybersecurity. 

 Ubuntu:
 Ubuntu is an open-source, user-friendly distribution that is widely used in security and other industries. It has both a 
 command-line interface (CLI) and a graphical user interface (GUI). Ubuntu is also Debian-derived and includes common applications 
 by default. Users can also download many more applications from a package manager, including security-focused tools. Because of 
 its wide use, Ubuntu has an especially large number of community resources to support users.

 Ubuntu is also widely used for cloud computing. As organizations migrate to cloud servers, cybersecurity work may more regularly 
 involve Ubuntu derivatives.

 Parrot:
 Parrot is an open-source distribution that is commonly used for security. Similar to KALI LINUX ™, Parrot comes with 
 pre-installed tools related to penetration testing and digital forensics. Like both KALI LINUX ™ and Ubuntu, it is based on 
 Debian.

 Parrot is also considered to be a user-friendly Linux distribution. This is because it has a GUI that many find easy to navigate. 
 This is in addition to Parrot’s CLI.

 Red Hat® Enterprise Linux®
 Red Hat Enterprise Linux is a subscription-based distribution of Linux built for enterprise use. Red Hat is not free, which is a 
 major difference from the previously mentioned distributions. Because it’s built and supported for enterprise use, Red Hat also 
 offers a dedicated support team for customers to call about issues.

 AlmaLinux:
 AlmaLinux is a community-driven Linux distribution that was created as a stable replacement for CentOS. CentOS was an open-source 
 distribution that is closely related to Red Hat, and its final stable release, CentOS 8, was in December 2021. CentOS used source 
 code published by Red Hat to provide a similar platform. AlmaLinux is designed to be a drop-in replacement for CentOS 8. This 
 ensures that applications and configurations that worked on CentOS will continue to function on AlmaLinux. 

Package Managers:
A package is a piece of software that can be combined with other packages to form an application. Some packages may be large 
enough to form applications on their own. 

Packages contain the files necessary for an application to be installed. These files include dependencies, which are supplemental 
files used to run an application. 

Package managers can help resolve any issues with dependencies and perform other management tasks. A package manager is a tool 
that helps users install, manage, and remove packages or applications. Linux uses multiple package managers. 

Note: It’s important to use the most recent version of a package when possible. The most recent version has the most up-to-date 
bug fixes and security patches. These help keep your system more secure

 Types of package managers:
 Many commonly used Linux distributions are derived from the same parent distribution. For example, KALI LINUX ™, Ubuntu, and 
 Parrot all come from Debian. CentOS comes from Red Hat.

 This knowledge is useful when installing applications because certain package managers work with certain distributions. For 
 example, the Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) can be used for Linux distributions derived from Red Hat, and package managers such 
 as dpkg can be used for Linux distributions derived from Debian.

 Different package managers typically use different file extensions. For example, Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) has files which 
 use the .rpm file extension, such as Package-Version-Release_Architecture.rpm. Package managers for Debian-derived Linux 
 distributions, such as dpkg, have files which use the .deb file extension, such as Package_Version-Release_Architecture.deb.

 Package management tools
 In addition to package managers like RPM and dpkg, there are also package management tools that allow you to easily work with 
 packages through the shell. Package management tools are sometimes utilized instead of package managers because they allow users 
 to more easily perform basic tasks, such as installing a new package. Two notable tools are the Advanced Package Tool (APT) and 
 Yellowdog Updater Modified (YUM).

  Advanced Package Tool (APT):
  APT is a tool used with Debian-derived distributions. It is run from the command-line interface to manage, search, and install 
  packages.

  Yellowdog Updater Modified (YUM):
  YUM is a tool used with Red Hat-derived distributions. It is run from the command-line interface to manage, search, and install 
  packages. YUM works with .rpm files.

Shell:
The shell is the command-line interpreter. You can think of a shell as a translator between you and the computer system. 
Shells allow you to give commands to the computer and receive responses from it. When you enter a command into a shell, the shell 
executes many internal processes to interpret your command, send it to the kernel, and return your results.

 Types of shells:
 The many different types of Linux shells include the following:

 ->Bourne-Again Shell (bash)

 ->C Shell (csh)

 ->Korn Shell (ksh)

 ->Enhanced C shell (tcsh)

 ->Z Shell (zsh)

 All Linux shells use common Linux commands, but they can differ in other features. For example, ksh and bash use the dollar sign 
 ($) to indicate where users type in their commands. Other shells, such as zsh, use the percent sign (%) for this purpose.

  Bash:
  Bash is the default shell in most Linux distributions. It’s considered a user-friendly shell. You can use bash for basic Linux 
  commands as well as larger projects. Bash is also the most popular shell in the cybersecurity profession.

 Standard input:
 Information received by the OS via the command line.

 echo:
 A linux command that outputs a specified string of text.

 String data;
 Data consisting of an ordered sequence of characters.

 Standard output:
 Information returned by the OS through the shell.

 Standard error:
 Error messages returned by the OS through the shell.